I'm cool to talk about whatever yeah so
what's it like to talk to evil people on
the phone oh I think that I have become
somewhat it would callous be the right
word um I feel like Oh
for three years huh yeah I've been doing
it for three years also initially there
were times where a scammer would say um
I play a grandma character or I do all
the characters I try to be like a
grandfather and they would say something
like I'm if you don't go to the store
and buy me a gift card I will come to
your house and shoot you and the first
few times I heard that you don't know
what to say and there's this moment of
wow how could another person say this to
it
a human being and then I think the more
that I've done it I just
maybe I'm desensitized so you said that
there's a moment where you and then you
made a facial expression oh and so what
what do you feel unless you in that
moment I think for me it there's times
where when I talk to them I feel
searching for the right word
you can feel shocked and wonder how
could a human being say that to someone
how could a person get to the point
where they feel it's okay to threaten an
87 year old grandma for a gift card I
guess that's what goes through my mind
yeah so that's a little bit abstract
right because like you're on the other
end of the phone and they're telling you
this but I don't hear anything personal
right you're asking how could someone do
it's like you're watching the news like
you're not participating how could
anyone do this to another human being
which is a little bit strange like I
would expect that if I was on the phone
with someone and said I'm gonna come to
your house and I'm gonna kill you even
if I was pretending I would imagine that
I felt like some kind of personal yeah
remorse yeah yes kind of yeah and some
of the a few of this gamers I've talked
to you I I think they don't care at all
they're they're okay with they want me
to be afraid and they want me to sure to
cry and capitulate and listen to
whatever it is they want and I suppose
that's the hardest part is where there
are times that I know in order to keep
wasting the scammers time in order to
keep like doing what I do I have to play
a character who is scared and sad and
will take their abuse and sometimes
that's really hard to what's hard about
works work through well it's it's
terrible you have you have someone
yelling at an old man and someone who is
like verbally abusing you and and trying
to manipulate someone to give them money
and you have to act like this is okay
I'm just gonna keep going along with it
and and I think I'm fine with it because
I know that I'm educating people about
the scams I'm wasting the guy's time at
the end of the day I typically also
something that we've been doing lately
is I'll like by the Google Play card
that they want and I my background is in
software dev so I coded a fake Google
store and I've redeemed the Google Play
card and then they get really really mad
at me so I know in the back of my mind
that there's gonna be some how do you
feel when they get mad at you there yeah
I admittedly there is a little bit of
like a I don't know justice is the right
word because it's now really justice but
don't ask me that question um I don't
know I don't know what it is but it's
there's something satisfying about
saying well you thought that you could
control the situation and manipulate an
87 year old man but actually we were
controlling the situation for the past
five hours and and you just got scammed
it's like we've we flipped the table and
kind of got back at the scammers in a
small way I guess can I ask you so you
were saying earlier that you become
callous over time do you feel a whole
lot of empathy like in general yeah or I
think in general I'm I hate I don't like
making statements like this but I feel
as though I have empathy and I don't
like staying that because I don't like
coming I don't want to come across like
oh yeah I'm great arrived I'm a really
nice person or something but I do think
that I think about people and I very a
lot of the times when I talk to scammers
I Iram in the back of my mind this is
just another person who you know is
going through who knows what and I don't
know the story that they got him here
but yeah so kit let me let me ask you so
those seem like thoughts right okay
right so what I'm curious about is do
you do you when you say when I ask you
do you feel empathy your answer was sort
of I think I do but I don't want to say
yes because that seems arrogant or
something yeah I just don't want to come
I don't want to sound like I'm saying
dude I'm the nicest person on the
internet found the most humble person
ever because obviously that's not the
question I'm asking right I'm not asking
if you're a nice guy or you are you
concerned that maybe you come across as
too nice or not nice enough
I don't know okay yes I think that I met
with empathetic I think I will answer it
more straightforwardly sure you think
you're empathetic what makes you think
you're empathetic let me I get empathy
and sympathy mixed up sure so to me so
lit so so let's define me great great
point right so sympathy is feeling kind
of bad for someone empathy is feeling
what they feel okay yeah I think that so
say that again sympathy is that sympathy
is feeling bad right so I'm over here
and you're over there and and I feel bad
for you and empathy is sort of I feel
bad with you
right so empathy is the capacity for one
human being to like feel another's pain
so like if I'm watching TV and someone
gets hit in the nuts I feel a visceral
pain within myself does that make sense
like like putting yourself in someone's
shoes yeah exactly so like for example
when I see I would say that I'm that I
am empathetic or I have yeah absolutely
okay so I'm gonna toss out kind of an
inflammatory hypothesis and I think that
it you know I and please give me a
chance to explain myself
so as we become callous I think it like
we sort of lose our capacity for empathy
right and and you kind of like I'm just
noticing that in your job or for lack of
it I mean I'm you know in your stream
which I'm just gonna call a job because
I don't know what else to call it so
like in your work okay so like water
weight are you thinking that screaming
is not a job
no I it's just I was implying that like
I don't know because you mentioned that
you have a background in software
development so I don't know if this is
your job or not it is my job now just
kidding we posit yeah so so in your work
you've had to become callous and as a
result of callous you sometimes feel
less empathy right and you have a couple
of like abstract statements and even
when you
talk about empathy you use the word to
think a lot like it sounds like the the
the manifestation of your empathy is
something that I'd call cognitive
empathy which is it sort of like an
analysis of someone feeling bad as
opposed to feeling bad yourself and like
kind of like in essence capturing what
they feel hmm
right so interesting and and some of
that actually relates to a term that is
misunderstood which is sociopathy right
so that's the inflammatory hypothesis so
what I want to tell you myself that was
bad it doesn't sound bad
so I test very highly on the sociopathic
scale just as a disclaimer and what that
means it doesn't mean like sociopathy
isn't bad in and of itself so
psychiatrists tend to test very highly
and part of testing highly on the scale
is actually controlling or not feeling
emotional or like having a lot of
control over the amount of emotional
empathy you feel so the part of what
makes psychiatrists good at their job is
that they don't actually when someone
comes into my office and they feel super
super depressed and I see people for
like ten hours a day who are all
depressed if I have in a big valve in
terms of like the faucet of empathy is
open I'm gonna get destroyed
so psychiatrists trained themselves to
actually like acquire some degree of
like walls between them and another
person and those when we think about the
concept of sociopathy I'm not calling
you sociopath because once again I'm
saying I test highly on this I think
that that when you talk about feeling
callous that in some way is similar to
like how sociopaths feel right because
the interest if we think about a
sociopath and you ask them like you know
if you think about them like how do you
know what kind of people are their
callous people interesting I will say
just for the sake of conversation I was
specifically talking about just the
scammers yep because like I have kids
and there's time the other day my my
youngest was really excited about
something that was on the table and one
of the older ones in a very evil way
pushed
push the youngest away and I cried just
because my I was remembering my
childhood and my my little ones face was
just devastated it's like why could why
did this happen to me and I cried
because I was like like it was so many
emotions whatever oh gosh I think this
is a terrible thing - not terrible
that's the wrong word but I very much
don't I don't want my kids to get hurt I
don't want them to have to go up against
like to me what I saw and what does to
go up against yeah so what I saw in the
youngest of the boga clans eyes was just
a complete unexpected you know I don't
want to use the word malevolent but just
use own just a tear yeah I'm the level
and act like why would my betrayal yeah
like why would my older sibling do this
to me
and I didn't like seeing that I've been
betrayed and it's terrible and even
though it was a small thing it was just
one little thing well it was just you
could say it was just getting knocked
over right versus someone it's not like
your spouse cheats on you or something
yeah but for for my young kid that was
probably maybe the first time or one of
the first times that they've been
betrayed and I yeah so all those
thoughts and flooded into my mind anyway
it was all that was to say I still think
that I I don't feel like I'm callous in
most situations another way I could
describe it is um and sorry I talk a lot
so if you can just stop me but um when I
first started streaming but I still try
to do this today but sometimes at the
end when I would talk to a scammer
after I said you know gotcha I I wasn't
a gold right after all I'm just the
normal guy wasting your time I would ask
them why are you doing this
do your parents know that you're doing
this I would try to have a
heart-to-heart conversation beautiful.i
and I would I really wanted to somehow
reach in to their life and and even if
it was a 1% chance that they might think
about it at night and and it would get
them to change I would do that almost
every time and it made some people
really upset because they wanted me to
just yell off the scammers and say look
after you you know you suck but I really
wanted to do it because I felt like
there's mistakes I've made that people
reached in and said hey you made a bad
choice but you can be better like why
can't I do that to a scammer why can't
we do that for people that felt right
but over time it's becoming harder and
harder for me to do that maybe that's
another way to to say I'm callous or
like it's harder to still have that same
hope oh yeah like these this guy can
change or this girl can change because
I've been doing it for for 3 years and
you run across so many characters
respond um most of the time there's
probably three different responses one
is this arrogant like scamming is
awesome I make hundreds of million
dollars of hundreds of millions of
dollars a year and I have like 16 what
do they call it they they're sleeping
with girls all the time and their life
is perfect and they always bring up the
money thing like they make tons and tons
of money which I just think there's a
lot of evidence to say that's not true
and sure but of course they want I think
they want to feel special and they want
to take away anything I'm saying and
just say
I love my life things are great so
that's one probably the majority of this
camera what do they even do with you on
that level yeah I would probably half of
them would wooden some of them would
just hang up and say we're not scammers
and they would just hang up you know and
the other half would respond to me so I
would say 50% just hanging up 25% would
respond to me and say I love my life and
then maybe 25% would get a little bit um
you could tell that their voice changed
a little bit and they would they would
tell you something like well this is the
only thing that I can do to feed my
family or something like that and then
it was an even less percent of people
that would just tell you I'm a scammer I
don't make any money but honestly I'm
not sure what else to do and like get
into a really really actual real
conversation that's maybe like 2% or
something and you say that your viewers
don't like that well I think I think the
community that I have now is fine when I
do that I think there's just a
especially when I first started and it
was so new there were people there's a
group of people that come in who I am
this is my perception of it I talked a
minute about how a minute ago about how
there's a a nice feeling right of
revenge or something yeah when when you
get back at the scammers whatever it is
and I think there's a lot of people who
want to see that happen and then when I
start sympathizing or empathizing or
whatever and saying hey you're a person
you can do better than this what do you
tell your kid what do you tell your kids
do you want your kids to have to do this
is this the world that you want to
create for the people start thinking
wait a second like kit this guy doesn't
deserve anything he's a he's a filthy
filthy scammer who needs
you know what do you want a comments
what do you take away from them okay by
humanizing the person you're talking to
what do I take away from chat or what
are we having from I think to some for
some people I'm not saying the majority
I'm not saying the majority I think
there are some people that hmm maybe
it's harder for them to hate that person
or harder for them to feel as though
they I don't know what the right word is
you haven't thought about this before
cuz you give myself a very important
right what is that feeling the revenge
feeling or the yeah I think that for
some people you know their their family
has been affected by scams sure maybe
their grandma got scammed
um and then Here I am saying this is
just another person who could make
better life choices and deserves a
second chance
and I don't think so doesn't say what I
hear that when your mom just got scammed
yeah you know oddly enough kid I be I
mean I don't have any data to support
this but I'd be surprised if most people
who watch what you do resonate with you
because they have been victims of some
kind of scamming or someone they they
know has been victimized I think what
you're talking about is a feeling of
righteousness right it's like just like
yeah there's people who like let that
uncomfortable for me to accept this but
there are people who've said that yeah
like they've called it justice porn yeah
absolutely and it puts me in kind of a
weird situation or has put me in a weird
situation at times because while yes I
think that it's important to waste their
time and
to keep people about these scammers and
and I don't ever want to say that it is
acceptable for them to do what they're
doing I do genuinely believe that every
person has value and that everyone
should be treated that way and sure I
think that if most people thought about
it they would say well yeah that's like
that's the way our justice system works
right if people if you get in trouble
you're still treated as though you have
some sort of I mean I could be wrong but
some sort of something that you might be
able to bring to the world so you have a
defense against you and it's all these
different things but we had a couple of
things that if I can just jump in for a
second one is I want to explain a little
bit more about what I meant and ask you
a couple of questions about callousness
and sociopathy because I want to just
clarify that I didn't mean to imply that
I think you're a sociopath it's what I
what I really meant to understand is I
think that so this is a big problem with
with the idea of sociopathy is we kind
of label people as sociopaths are not
sociopaths I don't think it's binary
like I look I'll be a little bit more
transparent so when I was talking about
psychiatrists I think that callousness
and essentially sociopathy is is a
function of the mind that can be grown
and adaptive in certain circumstances
right into a certain degree like like
all physicians have to learn how to deal
with death and like deal with it in a
very neutral way in order to do their
job and it doesn't surprise me at all
because I actually have the same
experience that you have with your kids
which is a whole years ago I used to be
very very emotionally like level and not
many things would upset me or bother me
I could watch like movies and stuff with
gore and and all kinds of bad things
happen go yeah people it didn't bother
me at all
in fact I was probably even a little bit
like titillated or you know the
extremity like watching an extreme
emotion or extreme situation made me
feel a little bit more because most of
my experience of life was like just me
being dead in the inside yeah and but
after having kids and also I think after
sort of starting to practice psychiatry
I found that I
more walls up for my emotions with
people and then there was some amount of
like emotional build-up that would
happen with people which then would
start pouring out in other situations
and especially like with my kids and
stuff so like I find myself getting
teary eyed and stuff at all kinds of
random and so I think it is I'm kind of
curious about sort of talking a little
bit more with you about you know being
closed off in calais in one situation
and being open and feeling in another
situation I'd also be a little bit
curious you said that you know you said
something about being betrayed and when
you saw you know like one child it's not
so much of your kid was malevolent
although like there was some malevolence
in there right so there's a little
pretty young yeah sure I don't know if
they intentionally tried to this is a
very big difference sure absolutely
so but there was something about that
picture that feels malevolent even if
it's not you know one of your kids being
malevolent maybe the other kid doesn't
have a perception of malevolence but
there's you know level and somewhere in
there right maybe between the lines and
so you said it reminded you of something
that happened to you I'm very curious
about that and part of the reason that
I'm curious about that is I'm curious
why you do what you do um I don't think
I do what I do because of the probably
biggest betrayal thing that comes to
mind so it would probably be two very
tips tricks but I'm happy to talk about
either or both and then the last kind of
thing that I want to talk to you about
is do you think your job is fun
yeah yeah for the most part what's fun
about it very much enjoy it um I like
that every day is a different like story
are different I don't know what to
expect every day and novelty yeah you
know I I think occasionally some P and I
totally understand this for for some
people you once you've seen a couple of
my streams and you've seen that there's
probably five or six different main scam
just let's say and after you've just
seen let's say I'll say a dozen whatever
it is you could go alright well I kind
of know what's gonna happen now like I
know I have a general understanding of
the way the scams work and I think some
people are like oh he just does the same
thing every day
but for me it's it's always a different
person I'm talking to you on the phone
sure I try to play a different character
we do a lot of weird different things
and I like that I also really like um I
like making people laugh and I I think
that to some degree there has been a
sense of I don't know if I want to say
purpose but it feels like I'm I'm
providing for my family I'm doing
something that I enjoy and believe in
I'm educating people I'm able to help
people laugh and and learn about things
and I feel like it meets a lot of yeah
that checks a lot of things off the list
so I'm very grateful for that very
grateful for that I'm curious do you
feel like a predator no I I don't think
so
you mean then I talking to this cameras
yeah yeah people have asked me before
like yeah do I feel like I'm I don't
know taking advantage some people have
said that I I am taking advantage of
them and like I don't know that you're
taking advantage of them
I don't think think so um do I feel like
a predator
I don't know if I bet anyone's asked me
that particular question predator as in
it makes me think of like a lion or
something like I'm stalking them and so
I wasn't thinking so much lion I was
thinking spider okay like trying to trap
them and um Chad says confirmed
sociopathic predator and this is what I
mean by challenging is this okay that
I'm asking you these things oh I don't
care okay yeah no this is interesting I
I really like to think I really like to
think about stuff so um yeah I don't I
think that I have ever thought of myself
as a predator or like I was doing
something wrong I did have some serious
conversations with a friend of mine
who's also just likes to think in the
very beginning so three years ago let's
say is what you know is what I'm doing
wrong let's say like that was sort of
the topic what am i you know am I so you
would if we're straightforward about it
I lie on the phone every day right I
talked to this gamer and I pretend to be
an 87 year old man or whatever it is for
five hours or whatever I lie and at
first there were times where I would
think oh gosh I mean a pretty big I
think it's fairly important to fairly
important is wrong I don't want it I
think it's very important not to lie I
think something that I I teach my kids
and that everyone generally would would
say to their children you don't tell
your kid you know what a great thing to
do son or daughter like lie that's
that's great so that was something that
was hard for me for awhile like it
gosh I'm lying every day and the way I
sort of justified it or the way that I
thought through it with with one of my
friends was that one
I do typically tell them at the end I do
not always but in the beginning I always
at the end told them that I was actually
me and I I sort of like stopped lying
you know and explained the whole entire
situation and part of that was a mental
thing for me to say okay well I'm not
lying anymore like no but then I also
went in talking to my friend thought
well maybe this is just I think there's
a word for it so you might know um sort
of like it I don't want to say for the
greater good because I think that's like
misquoted a lot but but that can I don't
that kind of vibe but maybe that's the
best oh I meant to say the ends justify
the means I think that's misquoted a lot
the the but further greater good you
could kind of say yeah like okay so I
lied to a scammer for a while so I could
keep them on the phone and educate
thousands of people about the scam I
feel like there's a so what that I'm
gonna ask you something okay so what it
sounds like no no I'm just an ER I
actually really appreciate that you talk
a lot you shared a lot of thoughts and
it really honestly it's it's it's really
awesome so let me ask you something so
right now what you're doing is
essentially providing a lot of reasons
why your behavior is good right yeah
because I'm a predator so my protection
okay so I was trying to say yeah I don't
think I am and here's why but absolutely
right so so so I didn't okay so maybe to
clarify so I'll ask you again do you
feel like a predator leader doing this
but just so it's clear I didn't think
that you were calling me a predator so I
misspoke well get in there at some point
um no I don't think that I mode
predator I don't feel like I'm a
predator okay I don't when you're
talking to you Scambler do you feel like
you're hunting hmm I've been hunting
before it's not gosh you know maybe
there's definitely times where I don't
know if I'm supposed to say that but
there's definitely times where it feels
like I'm a few steps ahead of them and I
know exactly what they're gonna do and
I'm I'm laying my traps if you will or
like I there's days where it feels like
I what was the term I can play them like
a fiddle and and it's like I hate maybe
this comes across really weird but yeah
it's like I can do whatever I want I can
have them sing songs I can have them
yeah you can so you can really just so
you're a person troll now who can
control other people you can play them
like a fiddle
well I've only experienced that with the
scammers absolutely right
so so these are your words right there
there are moments where you can feel
like you can play them like a fiddle and
we're talking about yet so I would say
the concept is or at least as I've
before we're going to jump in I want you
to ask I want to ask you what are you
feeling when I say that it's like kind
of an inflammatory and almost like an
attack I feel uncomfortable yeah yeah I
feel like I shouldn't be saying it
because I deserve let's talk about why
just you know maybe it feels wrong it
feels like a bad like oh yeah I can
control people like it feels like that
her like a bad guy in a movie would be
things yeah yeah I can control people
you know kit who else can control can
control people
there's a lot of jokes but I want to say
but uh you know so I can do that so a
lot of times you know on stream I'm
capable of bringing people in a
particular way and I I choose to use my
power for good instead of evil but like
I'm I can I mean so I have a skill to
essentially like shape the behavior and
perceptions of other human beings that's
what a small actress does yeah and and I
think the more you especially the more
you you know how people think and the
more that you experience that I'm sure
you can ask questions and lead people
any which way and I think I'm I've
experienced that with with the scammers
because I know for the most part let's
say 90% I know what they want I know how
the scam works
I know I know what's driving them I'd
I've learned all of these things and so
you can use it you could say against
them to waste their time and do whatever
it is you want and so I would say the
same thing I've used it in a way I
viewed it for good rather than -
absolutely
so that's unclear about this okay so I'm
glad that you're saying that because I'm
under stand that you feel uncomfortable
cuz I think what you're doing so I'm
just gonna ask you is it fun and your
answers were there's novelty there's
humor there's purpose I support my
family
those are all positive things right and
and so it is it so so when I ask you is
it fun your answer is involved like yeah
it's something new every day you know I
support my family it's funny there's
like humor to it and and I think there's
also like this undercurrent of like I
think why people watch us because
they're watching a hunter right like I I
think I think that just because you're
trying to like I think it's very I think
your moral approach is doubly important
because there's an underbelly to this
that is not positive so I think that
you're a good person because you don't
give in to those feelings of
righteousness and you try to go the
extra step
actually help people but I think there's
absolutely some amount of you know
satisfaction from playing people like a
fiddle because that's how human beings
work right the other thing if we think
about it the more I'm asking you about
the stuff and more uncomfortable I make
you feel the more and it's I mean I
apologize for doing this but I'm kind of
doing it on purpose
I'm sort of manipulating you even now
right sure so I'm like as the discomfort
comes up you say more and more positive
things like you're like you know I'm
trying to help people and I think that's
how you've dealt you've reconciled your
own internal conflict because I think
there's a there's a part of you that is
like darkness on the inside right
because we all have that sure yeah yeah
and I think there's been plenty of times
where if you think to yourself oh gosh
am I like is this well not as much more
but when I first started like is this at
the cool like am I like am i doing
something wrong here
yeah use like it's good but I I had to
work through that quite a bit because I
think there's so that what I think is
really respectable about what you do and
I think what makes you a good person is
that struggle so like I want to kind of
try to be clients panics I guess have
yeah so so I think we have the
perception that good people don't have
bad pieces right when I asked you is
this fun you're like yeah I do it
because I'm trying to help people I'm
trying to like educate people about
scamming this is good about what I do
this is good about what I do this is
good right what about it this is good at
work yeah I think part of that um is
because there are things that are not
fun so I never I I think I was starting
to say well here's the reasons why it
what isn't here's the times where I feel
like it's fun but there's other times
where it's it's not fun and I also think
in general yeah there's probably some
fun whether it's a dark way or whatever
you want to call it when you're in
control of the situation you can get
them to sing Britney Spears or whatever
it is yeah how does that feel like that
yeah good I don't know I suppose it's
because I again I still think it's
because there's value in it
like I see it as I'm keeping them on the
phone why can't you let why can't why do
you have to see value in it
right why is otherwise it just feels
like I'm manipulating a human being and
that doesn't feel right yeah so but do
you see what your mind is doing there's
the feeling of manipulating a human
being and then the rationalization comes
in and says let's balance them let's
balance that's what you're always
telling me like here's the way I balance
it here's the way I balance it here's
the way I balance oh yeah and and oddly
enough that makes you feel like an evil
person but that's actually what makes
you a good person because a good person
is not someone who lacks negative
feelings a good person is one who
strives to balance like that sense of
like because you're you're a [ __ ]
predator man right like that's what you
do like do you agree yeah I live
manipulate evil people but you're
absolutely a predator for evil people
yeah right look let's be clear like
people you war people into your trap and
then you pounce which is what people are
looking for they're looking for you to
pounce and then what you do [ __ ] kit
then you be nice to them and you try to
help them and then it's like and then
everyone who's watching like sees this
like Snow Leopard to jump out of a tree
and like grab a monkey and then starts
giving it like an oil massage and
they're like this is not what I signed
up for yeah why isn't he tearing them
their limbs apart and feeding it to his
children yeah absolutely
that's a good description there
certainly have been times where
especially when I come up against
someone who just feels completely I
think there's been a few times
specifically that I have met maybe a
sociopath which I believe is someone who
lacks empathy sure yeah it's the one way
of yes
yeah yeah or there have been people who
just do not care at all about any
persons feeling whatsoever and that has
been weird and uncomfortable to come up
against and so with those people there
have been times where I'm thinking I
don't I don't know if I can have a
serious conversation with this person
and tell them what they're doing is
wrong you need to stop and so I'll
pounce and set the trap or whatever you
want to call it or I'll just end the
call and I'll leave them thinking gosh I
ruined it
I could have scammed this person and
I'll just I'll just end it because
that's thinking I can't
I would rather so here's another on that
line of thought there have been times
where I've revealed to them
I call it revealing like yeah taking my
mask off which by the way like licking
can we just for a minute comment on the
fact that you actually like me we're
like you literally become about it right
like your identity you see you wear
something and then you go out for the
greater good and and you you know it's
the world that makes you put the mask on
right like the world calls you to do
this because some people are being like
scam like yeah absolutely yeah yeah I
feel like that's really humbling I don't
know how to take compliments very well
because I I just feel like a normal guy
but but yeah I appreciate that that's
what that's he's so extraordinary well
thanks anyway what we're talking about
Oh so there's times where I I do
appreciate that I don't want that to
come across whatever it's just hard for
me to that's a whole their topic I
suppose that's a whole other because I I
think the simplest answer is I think
that I'm just a
Everidge person who I you know I think
I'm a maybe at the root of it is like
what I was saying before I think
everyone is everyone has value everyone
has things that they can do that are
that are
good and how did you Murray and I how
did I learn what the value thing or yeah
how did you like so it seems like you
really do have a central belief that you
I don't even know if you I think you you
convince yourself of that right like
that's a conclusion they probably and
and and you kind of worked to that and
at some point you almost chose to set
that yes north on your compass yeah I
think there's times where you look at
this is all I haven't answered a lot of
these questions before it's kind of fun
to think about but I think to some
degree when you look at I come across
some evil people and you could say the
world is terrible why should I have kids
why should anybody do anything
why would like gosh it's just this
terrible evil place is full of heartache
and misery or whatever like you could
you could have those thoughts or you
could say I guess there was a moment
where I said like no I just refused to
believe that that had to be acceptable
and I said if there are people who can
be evil there has to be and I'm not
trying to say anything special about
myself I just think there was a everyone
makes a choice every single day and says
am I gonna do something that's a little
bit good or a little bit bad and it
feels like why can't why can't we choose
to do better why can't we be good and I
want that for my kids in my family and I
want there to be good let me ask
something and why was it so emotional
for you when one of your kids knocked
off the thing for the other kid probably
because they saw bad
what is that evil I think it was a silly
moment to some degree because I don't
well try think about it describe it to
me it was one of the first times where I
watched the whole thing take take place
where I saw something bad or malevolent
or whatever I mean they're young so it
was one of the first times that they
just saw evil and there was this look on
their face if I don't understand why
this happened and I wonder if I wonder
if the reason it struck you is because
in that moment you saw your younger
child start to formulate a world where
this struggle that you talked about was
not true and what I'm sorry this is
gonna be really abstract but you know so
this is what I'm hearing from you you
kind of talk about people making a
choice right you're saying that all
human beings have value and and that
sort of presupposes like and that
everyday like you have a struggle and
you have to make a choice to be like a
good person or a bad person and so like
that I think is like absolutely what
I've been trying to point out to you
about your own psychological process is
that it's lopsided towards positivity
because I think you know that there is a
negative person inside you right
there's the hundred think that I could
do terrible evil things absolutely and
it isn't because you recognize that
beast what is within you that's why you
recognize that people have value so like
it's not that people have in very
inherent value it's that they have the
hope for value right that any person can
be turned around because if if it is
hopeless for others then what does that
mean for your own internal beast do you
think that there is a reason why certain
people get concerned with certain
philosophical questions like you all of
your abstractness has to do with like
this axis of good and evil of like value
in forgiveness and can someone be bad
and can we forgive them or should they
be you know should we crucify them and
just like Pinos there is there
is there forgiveness or is there like
righteous justice about putting them in
the race and in my sense is that all of
your abstractions and and now like so I
conclusions that are really really
unfair because I like it's like a snap
judgment right so the reason this isn't
really a conclusion it's really like a
hypothesis for you to think about is it
okay if I share like my hypothesis about
a couple of things and just a company
comes over I might disagree so yeah
absolutely you're completely and and and
you're you're gonna be the judge of
whether this is right or wrong it's not
my place to make a conclusion like
you're the one who knows right so I'm
gonna share this with you and then I'd
love to hear your reflections about like
whether I'm way off base or it resonates
so the first is like you know I I think
what I think you are a good person I
don't think you're a sociopath but I
think that you do have this part of you
that like we all have and this is the
problem is like people don't get this
and this is why I'm harping on this is
because people feel like bad people
because they have bad feelings and by
bad feelings I don't mean anger and
depression I mean like you know
schadenfreude means so schadenfreude is
a german word that involves getting
pleasure out of the suffering for from
of others expelling the b c and h oh i
said i speak a little bit yeah so the
you know i think it's interesting
because like like human beings have that
right like when we watch about like if
you look at like some you know some
subreddits right like there's a lot of
there's a lot of satisfaction over like
watching the idiocy of others and i
don't know how that is but I think it's
wired into us because human beings just
that's like a you know it's not like a
cultural thing it's like you can take
human beings from all over the world and
they're gonna get satisfaction out of
watching someone else like [ __ ] off in
some way and then I think we also have
parts of us that that are I mean some of
us are hunters right and I think that
like just because you feel let that
degree of satisfaction I think it's part
of the reason that people watch what you
do because there's a certain like
righteous satisfaction out of being able
to like you know dhamaal or someone
who's
like an evil person and so we have these
parts of us that we generally view as
like dark or negative right like the
capacity to hunt the capacity to like
take advantage of someone the capacity
to manipulate someone and and goodness
or badness doesn't come from having
those thoughts so like for example
people with OCD sometimes people have
obsessional thoughts that are negative
yeah they like walk around and like they
have OCD which means their mind like
thinks about killing other people and
then this person feels bad because
they're like I don't want to have these
thoughts but our mind doesn't we don't
control what our mind thinks up right
like that's but we we blame ourselves
for the thoughts that our mind gives us
and for someone who has anxiety they're
like I want to just be able to interact
with normal human beings at a party but
instead instead my mind is like oh
you're a dumbass shut up right you look
like an idiot no one here likes you like
that's that doesn't that doesn't mean
we're actually bad people thinking
negative thoughts doesn't make us bad
people doesn't make it true our thoughts
are not true you know what I think is
actually an I would agree with that yeah
yeah so what I think where goodness
comes from is not about what your
internal impulse not about what your
internal impulses are but about the way
that you act and form them like the way
that you act on them in the life that
you want for yourself right so I think
that's part of the thought of okay why I
said well you have a choice every day
like you perhaps so this is where it's
exactly so I think your worldview comes
from this struggle that you have within
yourself right because let me ask you
just go ahead kiddo if you became a
scammer how successful do you think you
would be I choose not to answer the
question
absolutely that's good I don't need I
feel like with everything that I have
learned that I could be very successful
iver good and I think think that I don't
think that I could ever actually do it
though I feel like I would it would be
it would throw away all of my morality
and everything that I absolutely so when
you say answer your question I couldn't
actually
do any medicines let's be clear about
definitions you're capable of doing it
you choose not to and that's where good
yes comes fun sure right yeah that's
yeah it's very interesting I think that
that's yeah I think that I would agree
with what you're saying that and that's
why I say that idea of now though where
we get value from what all that stuff I
still don't fully understand I think if
I can try to summarize it is well every
day you can choose to do something that
is going to make things worse and bad
and evil for you or those around you or
you can choose to do things that are
good for you and your family and those
around you and that gives that brings
value maybe yeah so I would change
actually I'm that might be sort of my
weird thought yeah so so now I think we
get to maybe what we talk about next
time which is where does this come from
right and I think that like like in your
case I'd be really really curious about
you know what your upbringing was like
who took advantage of you and whether on
some level you're trying because like
you know from a Freudian level what we
kind of say is like some people have
daddy issues like right so what we mean
by that is like like oftentimes or you
know some women especially will have a
particular relationship of where their
father like didn't treat them with
respect and then that translates in some
way into their like current romantic
relationships the point here is that
something about your upbringing in the
past shapes the way that you live your
life today and that's kind of like a
psychological Freudian like kind of a
negative cast to it I think that's the
same side that's a different side of the
coin but is essentially the same coin is
what Mahatma Gandhi said which is be the
change that you want to see in the world
yeah I absolutely agree with that
statement